Hi, I'm Luca Bartolomei and I'm going to
present you our demo multi-setup depth
perception through virtual image
Hallucination.
Our code and papers are available on our
project page.
Given a pair of stereo images stereo
algorithms try to resolve these so-called
correspondence problem.
This problem is not always easy.
Uniform areas such as the wall and the
figure make the problem ambiguous.
Furthermore, deep stereo networks suffer
when dealing with unseen scenarios.
Meanwhile, given an image and sparse depth
points, specialized deep networks try to
complete the sparse depth map accordingly to
the RGB image.
Recent SOTA depth completion networks
achieve impressive in-domain performance.
However, they lack generalization across
different domains inspired by active stereo.
Our techniques virtually project a pattern
into stereo images or event streams according
to sparse depth measurements.
We assume a calibrated setup composed of a
stereo frame or event camera and a depth
sensor appropriate for the final
environment, as shown in the left figure.
Our proposal increases dramatically the
accuracy of the stereo network, even with a
small percentage of deep seeds.
We notice that recent deep stereo networks
achieved strong generalization capabilities.
Purposely, we cast the stereo network as a
depth completion network using a hand-crafted
framework that generates a virtual stereo
pair out of sparse depth points, as displayed
in the right figure.
Our proposal can deal with in domain and out
domain scenarios.
As for previous Deep Stereo Fusion methods.
Our proposal relies on sparse depth seeds,
but differentially from them we inject sparse
points directly into images using a virtual
pattern for each known point.
We convert depth into disparity.
Then we apply a virtual pattern in each
stereo image accordingly to a pattering
strategy. Our method does not require any
change or assumption.
In the stereo matcher, we assume it to be a
black box model that requires a pair of
rectified stereo images and produces a
disparity map.
Let's see in detail a pair of images
enhanced with our virtual pattern projection.
This illustration shows a Middlebury stereo
frame enhanced with our adaptive random patch
based virtual pattern.
On the upper part of the left image.
We can appreciate our occlusion handling
strategy, and on the top of the right image,
the corresponding area with subpixel
splatting.
Furthermore, as visible in the left bottom
part of the left image, our virtual pattern
is also projected on the left border
occlusion to maintain consistency.
Lastly, our adaptive patches guarantee the
preservation of depth discontinuities in thin
details. We assess the performance of our
framework using unfiltered depth hints
sourced from off the shelf lidar sensors
using data sets such as KittiDC and M3ED.
As shown in the figure, our framework can
leverage sparse depth points to solve the
Textureless region issue, whereas
traditional projected patterns would be
ineffective. We embark on a comparison
between the effectiveness of VPP against the
traditional active stereo setup, typically
composed of an IR stereo camera and an IR
projector using the same stereo data set.
Some deep networks, such as DLNR, could often
produce artifacts when fed with stereo pairs
acquired with IR pattern projection.
In contrast, the same networks can
seamlessly take advantage of our virtual
patterns, starting from the VPP setup
composed of a stereo camera and a sparse
depth sensor. We wondered how VPP would
perform in case of camera failure.
When a camera fails depth stereo Fusion
collapses into a depth completion task.
Since we cannot virtually project into the
real stereo pair, we create a virtual stereo
system with an arbitrarily chosen baseline.
The stereo matcher can densify the sparse
virtual stereo images, producing a dense
depth map. The virtual baseline is an
important hyperparameter to tune.
A larger baseline is preferred when dealing
with outdoor environments.
We implemented our depth completion
framework with RSM, a traditional stereo
algorithm, and RAF stereo, a recent
iterative deep stereo network starting from a
sparse cost volume.
Rsm can densify the volume using the volume
aggregation module.
Furthermore, the RAF stereo Recurrent module
can reconstruct a dense disparity map even if
guided by a sparse correlation volume.
Rsm can use context image to modulate Sgm's
penalty scores, and RAF stereo explicitly
handles context image via the context
encoder, but unfortunately not all stereo
matching can handle the context image,
resulting in a performance drop.
We assess the performance of our depth
completion framework using NYU depth 52 and
Void as indoor data sets, and add C and D
dad as outdoor data sets as shown in the
figure. Our depth completion framework
equipped with RAF stereo can handle different
domains while recent SOTA networks fail.
Our last paper presented at Iccv 2024 is a
pioneering work regarding depth and event
stereo fusion.
Inspired by our previous work VPP.
We propose two strategies dubbed as Vsh and
BTH that achieve SOTA performance if compared
to traditional depth stereo fusion
techniques.
The first one, Virtual Stack Hallucination,
is a direct extension of VPP.
The event stack that encodes the event
stream is seen as an image with an arbitrary
number of channels and value range.
We enhance the event stacks using an
upgraded random patterning operator that can
work with an unknown number of channels and
value range.
The second extension, Back in Time
hallucination, is a more general proposal
that injects sparse depth hints directly
into the event stream.
By doing so, we completely ignore the
architecture of the event stereo network.
Bth creates fictitious events that obey the
following constraints the time ordering
constraint, the geometry constraint, and a
similarity constraint coded into polarity and
timestamp. This qualitative video shows the
benefits of both with respect to a passive
event. Stereo setup.
Firstly, we show a situation where the car
is stopped.
There are no valid events in stereo.
Matching is not feasible in the vanilla
setup.
Instead, BTH provides meaningful events even
if the scene is static during motion.
A large number of events are fired in the
stereo.
Matching is working correctly.
Our additional fake events do not interfere
with them.
Instead, they still help in uniform regions.
In this second scene, we show a scenario
where the car is stopped, but the environment
is partially dynamic.
We observe the same phenomena.
Fake events help in static regions and
uniform regions, preserving the dynamic
content. Finally, we show the performance of
our
proposal in an indoor environment.
As you can see, both permits recovery of the
accuracy on the left large wall.
We built a functional prototype composed of
an Oak-d Lite stereo camera with a built in
stereo matching algorithm and an Intel
RealSense L515 LiDAR as the sparse depth
sensor. We managed to calibrate the setup
using a standard chessboard calibration
algorithm between the IR camera of L515
and the left camera of Oak-d light.
We also built a CNC machined aluminum
support to guarantee a stable calibration
over time.
L 515 and Oak-d share the same clock as the
host machine, and are time synchronized using
the nearest time stamp algorithm.
We built a second prototype suitable for
outdoor environments, composed of an oak
daylight stereo camera and a livox mid 70
lidar.
As the sparse depth sensor, we managed to
calibrate the setup using a standard
chessboard calibration algorithm between a
pseudo image extracted from the reflectivity
point cloud of mid 70 and the left camera of
Oak-d Lite.
We also 3D printed a support to guarantee a
stable calibration over time.
Mid 70 and Oak-d share the same clock and
are time synchronized using the nearest
timestamp algorithm.
Firstly, the depth sensor captures sparse
depth points with high confidence.
The resulting sparse depth map is
reprojected to the Oak-d left camera, using
the rigid transformation previously found
using the chessboard calibration algorithm.
Finally, the reprojected depth in the
vanilla pair of stereo images are fed into
our VPP module, which produces two enhanced
stereo images in a fraction of a second.
These VPP images are fed again into the
Oak-d stereo algorithm to obtain a robust
disparity estimation.
Our graphical interface permits us to show
the benefits of our proposal in critical
areas, such as textureless regions, with
respect to the vanilla passive stereo in our
VPPDC demo.
The L515 captures both depth points and an
RGB image.
Next, VPPDC generates two virtual stereo
images, which are processed by the Ocds SVM
processor. To leverage the RGB image, we use
RAF stereo, feeding it with the virtual
stereo pair along with the context image.
This integration allows for enhanced detail
extraction from the context image.
A similar VPPDC demo is done using the D70
as the sparse depth sensor and OAK RGB
as image Guidance.
Thanks for the attention.